R-Ladies Bioconductor collaboration post draft (#340)
rladies/rladies.github.io: content/blog/2024-07-21-RLadies-Bioconductor-collab/index-en.qmd

---
title: "Invitation to participate in the new R-Ladies–Bioconductor collaboration!"
description: |
  Announcing a new collaboration between R-Ladies and Bioconductor
author:
  - name: Janani Ravi
    url: https://github.com/jananiravi
date: 2024-07-21
categories:
  - RLadies
  - Bioconductor
image: "rladies-bioc.png"
editor: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: sentence
---

![](rladies-bioc.png){ width=50% fig-align="center"}

We are excited to invite you to join a new collaboration between two global communities, each committed to building diverse developer communities around the world, R-Ladies and Bioconductor.

[R-Ladies](http://rladies.org) is a worldwide organization whose mission is to promote gender diversity in the R community.

> Starting in 2012 in San Francisco, USA, R-Ladies now has expanded to more than 200 chapters spanning 60+ countries around the world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R-Ladies Global started in 2016 and has expanded to more than 200 chapters in 60+ countries worldwide.
```

> R-Ladies supports endeavors with other like minded communities such as [LatinR](https://latin-r.com/en/), [RainbowR](https://rainbowr.netlify.app/), [miR](https://mircommunity.com/), [ArabR](https://arabr.github.io), [AfricaR](https://r4africa.org/), and [AsiaR](https://github.com/asiar-community).

Reviewer: We should mention other communities without them knowing we are going to mention them.

Author: We are just mentioning that R-Ladies works with these communities. Do you want me to check in with them?

Reviewer: I think we are mixing here the work of the chapters with the work of R-Ladies Global.  

For example, LatinR hosts tutorials with R-Ladies Chapters in Latin America, but R-Ladies Global never officially got involved in that. Now, R-Ladies Global has worked with useR! and Posit, beyond the local chapters. 

I don't know what we have done with the other communities listed there. Even when some of us belong to more than one community, that doesn't mean we do that work representing or in the name of R-Ladies. I would like to give credit for the collaborative work to the chapters when it is due.

Reviewer 2: Agreed that the concept is muddy. Can be resolved by deleting this sentence, as not essential to the scope.

[Bioconductor](https://www.bioconductor.org/) develops, supports, and disseminates free open-source software that facilitates rigorous and reproducible analysis of data from current and emerging biological assays.
The organization is dedicated to building a diverse, collaborative, and welcoming community of developers and data scientists.
To this end, they have periodically elected scientific, technical, and community advisory boards committed to the technical and community aspects of Bioconductor.

We are excited to begin a new initiative that aims to connect R-Ladies members who are also Bioconductor users or developers.
This effort is designed as a key step towards bringing together passionate individuals committed to expanding diversity in the computational biology and bioinformatics developer space.

Here are a few concrete ways in which we want to get the ball rolling:

-   Announce each others' events on websites or social media
-   Jointly host events

> -   Promote R-Ladies local watch parties of live-casted or pre-recorded events and professional networking events for Bioconductor conferences (BioC: BioC North America, BioCAsia, EuroBioC) Highlight Bioconductor speakers at R + computational biology R-Ladies events across chapters

Reviewer 3: Could you please expand on what kind of support you would provide to chapters who host such watch parties or jointly hosted events? In order to be a true collaboration resources need to be shared both ways.

Author: Sure, we can make that more explicit. For starters, the material/content and the speakers would fully come from BioC events -- seminars, workshops. For other alternatives, I will wait for @mblue9 to be back from the BioC conference (that's going on now @ MI).

**Get Involved**

> Excited to join us in this partnership?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Excited to join us in this initiative?
```

Here's how you can get started:

> -   Learn more about our joint efforts at the [Bioconductor Working Group page](https://workinggroups.bioconductor.org/currently-active-working-groups-committees.html#r-ladies-and-bioc).

Reviewer: This is a surprise, we didn't know about this working group.  As we said many times before, we don't allow chapters or groups to use our name inside the institution.

Author: Yani, this is just the working group that started the conversations with you -- a group of us from bioconductor (who are also R-Ladies) who are working towards a possible collaboration resulting in this initiative. This started after our initial call and shared interest -- we will change the language to rm partnership and add initiative/collaboration, instead (as suggested by Shannon).

Reviewer 4: I've changed partnership to collaboration in the PR here: https://github.com/Bioconductor/BiocWorkingGroups/pull/45

> -   Join our #rladies channel in [Bioconductor Slack](https://slack.bioconductor.org/) to stay updated and connect with the community.

Reviewer: I would encourage people to join the R-Ladies Slack Community, no a channel inside Bioconductor.  This can be see as a chapter of R-Ladies inside Bioconductor and we don't allow to do that.

Author: Yes, we can add that, too. Again, the #rladies channel is where we started talking about what can the two communities do together -- this is for bioc folks to know how to connect to RL -- we can point them to the RL community! I asked Shannon if other RLadies links needed to be added. We can add the R-Ladies organizer and community slack links there.

Author: If they are coming from the RL side (in this blog post), they will start with RL slack and probably have a bioc or compbio channel (we already have an #r4bio channel) to talk about computational biology. this is not talking about a chapter but a way to communicate for folks already part of a community.

R-Ladies chapters work alongside other like minded communities such as [LatinR](https://latin-r.com/en/), [RainbowR](https://rainbowr.netlify.app/), [miR](https://mircommunity.com/), [ArabR](https://arabr.github.io), [AfricaR](https://r4africa.org/), and [AsiaR](https://github.com/asiar-community).

[Bioconductor](https://www.bioconductor.org/) develops, supports, and disseminates free open-source software that facilitates rigorous and reproducible analysis of data from current and emerging biological assays.
The organization is dedicated to building a diverse, collaborative, and welcoming community of developers and data scientists.
To this end, they have periodically elected scientific, technical, and community advisory boards committed to the technical and community aspects of Bioconductor.

We are excited to begin a new initiative that aims to connect R-Ladies members who are also Bioconductor users or developers.
This effort is designed as a key step towards bringing together passionate individuals committed to expanding diversity in the computational biology and bioinformatics developer space.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This coincidence of interest between members of both communities has already manifested in several R-Ladies chapters organizing events related to Bioinformatics and several R-Ladies members being part of the Bioconductor community. 

This announcement formalizes this spontaneous collaboration between the two communities. 
```

Here are a few concrete ways in which we want to get the ball rolling:

-   Announce each others' events on websites or social media
-   Jointly host events with local chapters
-   Promote R-Ladies local watch parties of live-casted or pre-recorded events and professional networking events for Bioconductor conferences (using content from BioC: BioC North America, BioCAsia, EuroBioC).

> -   Highlight Bioconductor speakers at R + computational biology R-Ladies events across chapters

Author: Ideas for co-hosted events. Is it the last point that's confusing? We can revise and share for review. We have resolved other comments. We (w/ @mblue9) will go through fully and revert this week for final edits. Thanks a lot for the edits & suggestions.

---
title: "New R-Ladies–Bioconductor collaboration!"
description: |
  Announcing a new collaboration between R-Ladies and Bioconductor
author:
  - name: Janani Ravi
    url: https://github.com/jananiravi

> date: 2025-01-19

Author: @yabellini @mblue9 date changed here. Text updated in the BioC branch as well. thanks, all!

Reviewer: @jananiravi you need to change two things:

- **the folder name**  (now is 2024-07-21-RLadies-Bioconductor-collab) it should have the new date in the name (for example 2025-01-29-RLadies-Bioconductor-collab).  
- **the date on the YAML**, following with the example: 2025-01-29  

Please use a date in the future (as the one in the example); we don't publish posts with past dates.  You choose the date and ping me here when it is done.

Thanks!

Author: Good point. Wasn't sure of the future date. So, I just added last week's date when I started making those final changes.

The organization is dedicated to building a diverse, collaborative, and welcoming community of developers and data scientists.
To this end, they have periodically elected [scientific](https://bioconductor.org/about/scientific-advisory-board/), [technical](https://bioconductor.org/about/technical-advisory-board/), and [community](https://bioconductor.org/about/community-advisory-board/) advisory boards committed to the technical and community aspects of Bioconductor.

We are excited to begin a new initiative that aims to connect R-Ladies members who are also Bioconductor users or developers.
This effort is designed as a key step towards bringing together passionate individuals committed to expanding diversity in the computational biology and bioinformatics developer space.
This coincidence of interest between members of both communities has already manifested in several R-Ladies chapters organizing events related to Bioinformatics and several R-Ladies members being part of the Bioconductor community. 

This announcement formalizes this spontaneous collaboration between the two communities. 
Here are a few concrete ways in which we want to get the ball rolling:

> -   Announce each others' events on websites and social media.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-  Share and promote events of mutual interest. 
```
suggesting this change to keep it flexible.

-   Jointly host events about bioinformatics/computational biology with local R-Ladies Chapters, benefiting both parties. 
-   Promote R-Ladies local watch parties of live-casted or pre-recorded events and professional networking events for Bioconductor conferences (using content from BioC: BioC North America, BioCAsia, EuroBioC).
-   Highlight Bioconductor speakers at R + computational biology R-Ladies events across chapters; similarly, highlight R-Ladies, who are interested in computational biology and developing Bioconductor packages, at BioC events.

> -   Do you have a new idea of collaboration for R-Ladies and Bioconductor that you don't see here? Please reach out to us!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-   Have a new idea for collaboration between R-Ladies and Bioconductor that you don’t see here? Please reach out to us!
```
